# Interview Answers
Be prepared to demonstrate your understanding of this week's concepts by answering questions on the following topics. These will not be counted as a part of your sprint score but will be helpful for preparing you for your endorsement interview, and enhancing overall understanding.

1. What problem does the context API help solve?
* Context API is a communication system for state that helps us deal with lots of nested components that need to pass state. It helps avoid significant prop drilling by giving deeply nested components direct access to pre-defined slices of state at a global level.

2. In your own words, describe `actions`, `reducers` and the `store` and their role in Redux. What does each piece do? Why is the store known as a 'single source of truth' in a redux application?
* Actions are the counterparts to state. That is, whereas state is the minimal representation of data in an app, an action is the minimal representations of a change to that data. In practice that simply means that an action is the mechanism by which we change the state of the application from one state to another. Actions at a minium include an action type and can also include an action payload. The payload is data that will interact to update state through the reducer. Reducers are closely related to actions in that reducers are the intermediaries that take an action, determine the appropriate reaction, and update state accordingly. As such they take in current state and the action and return updated state. In a redux app, the state lives in the store. The store is an object that contains a full representation of global state and can be accessed by components throughout the application if they're appropriately connected to it. These three features - actions, reducer and store - along with their interactions, make up the high-level architecture implemented by redux, which is a JavaScript library for state management.

3. What does `redux-thunk` allow us to do? How does it change our `action-creators`?
* `redux-thunk` allows us to handle asynchronous calls to the reducer. It intercepts them and acts depending on whether it's an action object or a function. If it's an action, it passes it to the reducer. If it's a function, it invokes it and passes dispatch as an argument to it. Action creators change because instead of returning an action object, they can now return a function that can make asynchronous call and dispatch actions when ready. 

4. What is your favorite state management system you've learned and this sprint? Please explain why!
* At this point, and mainly because of the complexity of redux, I prefer working with State and Context. There are less moving parts and less abstractions, which makes it simpler to visualize the processes and connections in the code base. Having said that, as I get more comfortable with redux, I suspect I'll be able to more easily visualize and manipulate the key components. When that happens, redux will likely become my go-to system since it offers a comprehensive solution to state management.
